---
title: Using Flux with Helm
menu_order: 90
---

- [Using Flux with Helm](#using-flux-with-helm)
  * [The `HelmRelease` custom resource](#the-helmrelease-custom-resource)
    + [Using a chart from a Git repo instead of a Helm repo](#using-a-chart-from-a-git-repo-instead-of-a-helm-repo)
      - [Notifying Helm Operator about Git changes](#notifying-helm-operator-about-git-changes)
    + [What the Helm Operator does](#what-the-helm-operator-does)
  * [Supplying values to the chart](#supplying-values-to-the-chart)
    + [`.spec.values`](#specvalues)
    + [`.spec.valueFileSecrets`](#specvaluefilesecrets)
      - [Example of `spec.valueFileSecrets`](#example-of-specvaluefilesecrets)
  * [Upgrading images in a `HelmRelease` using Flux](#upgrading-images-in-a-helmrelease-using-flux)
    + [Using annotations to control updates to HelmRelease resources](#using-annotations-to-control-updates-to-helmrelease-resources)
  * [Authentication](#authentication)
    + [Authentication for Helm repos](#authentication-for-helm-repos)
      - [Azure ACR repositories](#azure-acr-repositories)
    + [Authentication for Git repos](#authentication-for-git-repos)

# Using Flux with Helm

You can release charts to your cluster via "GitOps", by combining Flux
and the Flux Helm Operator (also in
[weaveworks/flux](https://github.com/weaveworks/flux)).

The essential mechanism is this: the declaration of a Helm release is
represented by a custom resource, specifying the chart and its
values. If you put such a resource in your git repo as a file, Flux
will apply it to the cluster, and once it's in the cluster, the Helm
Operator will make sure the release exists by installing or upgrading
it.

## The `HelmRelease` custom resource

Each release of a chart is declared by a `HelmRelease`
resource. The schema for these resources is given in [the custom
resource definition](../deploy-helm/flux-helm-release-crd.yaml). They
look like this:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: flux.weave.works/v1beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: rabbit
  namespace: default
spec:
  releaseName: rabbitmq
  chart:
    repository: https://kubernetes-charts.storage.googleapis.com/
    name: rabbitmq
    version: 3.3.6
  values:
    replicas: 1
```

The `releaseName` will be given to Helm as the release name. If not
supplied, it will be generated by affixing the namespace to the
resource name. In the above example, if `releaseName` were not given,
it would be generated as `default-rabbitmq`. Because of the way Helm
works, release names must be unique in the cluster.

The `chart` section gives a pointer to the chart; in this case, to a
chart in a Helm repo. Since the helm operator is running in your
cluster, and doesn't have access to local configuration, the
repository is given as a URL rather than an alias (the URL in the
example is what's usually aliased as `stable`). The `name` and
`version` specify the chart to release.

The `values` section is where you provide the value overrides for the
chart. This is as you would put in a `values.yaml` file, but inlined
into the structure of the resource. See below for examples.

### Using a chart from a Git repo instead of a Helm repo

You can refer to a chart from a _git_ repo, rather than a chart repo,
with a `chart:` section like this:

```yaml
spec:
  chart:
    git: git@github.com:weaveworks/flux-get-started
    ref: master
    path: charts/ghost
```

In this case, the git repo will be cloned, and the chart will be
released from the ref given (which defaults to `master`, if not
supplied). Commits to the git repo may result in releases, if they
update the chart at the path given.

Note that you will usually need to provide an SSH key to grant access
to the git repository. The example deployment shows how to mount a
secret at the expected location of the key (`/etc/fluxd/ssh/`). If you
need more than one SSH key, you'll need to also mount an adapted
ssh_config; this is also demonstrated in the example deployment.

#### Notifying Helm Operator about Git changes

The Helm Operator fetches the upstream of mirrored Git repositories
with a 5 minute interval. In some scenarios (think CI/CD), you may not
want to wait for this interval to occur.

To help you with this the Helm Operator serves a HTTP API endpoint to
instruct it to immediately refresh all Git mirrors.

```sh
$ kubectl -n flux port-forward deployment/flux-helm-operator 3030:3030 &
$ curl -XPOST http://localhost:3030/api/v1/sync-git
OK
```

> **Note:** the HTTP API has no built-in authentication, this means you
> either need to port forward before making the request or put something
> in front of it to serve as a gatekeeper.

### What the Helm Operator does

When the Helm Operator sees a `HelmRelease` resource in the
cluster, it either installs or upgrades the named Helm release so that
the chart is released as specified.

It will also notice when a `HelmRelease` resource is updated, and
take action accordingly.

## Supplying values to the chart

You can supply values to be used with the chart when installing it, in
two ways.

### `.spec.values`

This is a YAML map as you'd put in a file and supply to Helm with `-f
values.yaml`, but inlined into the `HelmRelease` manifest. For
example,

```yaml
apiVersion: flux.weave.works/v1beta1
kind: HelmRelease
# metadata: ...
spec:
  # chart: ...
  values:
    foo: value1
    bar:
    baz: value2
    oof:
    - item1
    - item2
```

### `.spec.valueFileSecrets`

This is a list of secrets (in the same namespace as the
`HelmRelease`) from which to take values. The secrets must each
contain an entry for `values.yaml`.

The values are merged in the order given, with later values
overwriting earlier. These values always have a lower priority that
those passed via the `.spec.values` parameter.

This is useful if you want to have defaults such as the `region`,
`clustername`, `environment`, a local docker registry URL, etc., or if
you simply want to have values not checked into git as plaintext.

#### Example of `spec.valueFileSecrets`

Say you have a values.yaml that looks like this:

```yaml
# values.yaml
clusterName: "my-cluster"
dockerRegistry: "registry.local"
mySecretValue: "foo"
```

You would create a secret in the cluster by doing this:

```sh
kubectl -n dev create secret generic default-values --from-file=values.yaml
```

If you did `kubectl get -n dev secret default-values` you would get:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: Opaque
metadata:
  name: default-values
  namespace: dev
data:
  values.yaml: <base64 encoded values.yaml>
```

Then, you could refer to the secret in a `HelmRelease`, and the
values would be used when the chart was installed:

```yaml
apiVersion: flux.weave.works/v1beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: uses-secret
  namespace: dev
spec:
  # chart: ...
  valueFileSecrets:
  - name: default-values
```

## Upgrading images in a `HelmRelease` using Flux

If the chart you're using in a `HelmRelease` lets you specify the
particular images to run, you will usually be able to update them with
Flux, the same way you can with Deployments and so on.

Flux interprets certain commonly used structures in the `values`
section of a `HelmRelease` as referring to images. The following
are understood (showing just the `values` section):

```yaml
values:
  image: repo/image:version
```

```yaml
values:
  image: repo/image
  tag: version
```

```yaml
values:
  image:
    repository: repo/image
    tag: version
```

These can appear at the top level (immediately under `values:`), or in
a subsection (under a key, itself under `values:`). Other values
may be mixed in arbitrarily. Here's an example of a values section
that specifies two images, along with some other configuration:

```yaml
values:
  persistent: true

  # image that will be labeled "chart-image"
  image: repo/image1:version

  subsystem:
    # image that will be labeled "subsystem"
    image:
      repository: repo/image2
      tag: version
      imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    port: 4040
```

### Using annotations to control updates to `HelmRelease` resources

You can use the [same annotations](./fluxctl.md#using-annotations) in
the `HelmRelease` as you would for a Deployment or other workload,
to control updates and automation. For the purpose of specifying
filters, the container name is either `chart-image` (if at the top
level), or the key under which the image is given (e.g., `"subsystem"`
from the example above).

-------------

<a name="why-repo-urls">**Why use URLs to refer to repositories, rather than names?**</a> [^](#cite-why-repo-urls)

A `HelmRelease` must be able to stand on its own. If we used names
in the spec, which were resolved to URLs elsewhere (e.g., in a
`repositories.yaml` supplied to the operator), it would be possible to
change the meaning of a `HelmRelease` without altering it. This is
undesirable because it makes it hard to specify exactly what you want,
in the one place; or to read exactly what is being specified, in the
one place. In other words, it's better to be explicit.

## Authentication

At present, per-resource authentication is not implemented. The
`HelmRelease` definition includes a field `chartPullSecret` for
attaching a `repositories.yaml` file, but this is ignored for now.

Instead, you need to provide the operator with credentials and keys (see the
following [Authentication for Heml repos](#authentication-for-helm-repos)
section for how to do this).

### Authentication for Helm repos

As a workaround, you can mount a `repositories.yaml` file with
authentication already configured, into the operator container.

> **Note:** When using a custom `repositories.yaml` the [default](../docker/helm-repositories.yaml)
that ships with the operator is overwritten. This means that for any
repository you want to make use of you should manually add an entry to
your `repositories.yaml` file.

To prepare a file, add the repo _locally_ as you would normally:

```
helm repo add <URL> --username <username> --password <password>
```

You need to doctor this file a little, since it will likely contain
absolute paths that will be wrong when mounted inside the
container. Copy the file and replace all the `cache` entries with just
the filename.

```
cp ~/.helm/repository/repositories.yaml .
sed -i -e 's/^\( *cache: \).*\/\(.*\.yaml\)/\1\2/g'
```

Now you can create a secret in the same namespace as you're running
the Helm operator, from the repositories file:

```
kubectl create secret generic flux-helm-repositories --from-file=./repositories.yaml
```

Lastly, mount that secret into the container. This can be done by
setting `helmOperator.configureRepositories.enable` to `true` for the
flux Helm release, or as shown in the commented-out sections of the
[example deployment](../deploy-helm/helm-operator-deployment.yaml).

#### Azure ACR repositories

For Azure ACR repositories, the entry in `repositories.yaml` created by
running `az acr helm repo add` is unsufficient for the Helm operator.
Instead you will need to [create a service principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-auth-service-principal#create-a-service-principal)
and use the plain text id and password this gives you. For example:

```yaml
- caFile: ""
  cache: <repository>-index.yaml
  certFile: ""
  keyFile: ""
  name: <repository>
  url: https://<repository>.azurecr.io/helm/v1/repo
  username: <service principal id>
  password: <service principal password>
```

### Authentication for Git repos

In general, it's necessary to have an SSH key to clone a git
repo. This is sometimes (e.g., on GitHub) called a "deploy key". To
use a chart from git, the Helm Operator needs a key with read-only
access.

To provide an SSH key, put the key in a secret under the entry
`identity`, and mount it into the operator container as shown in the
[example deployment](../deploy-helm/helm-operator-deployment.yaml).
The default ssh_config expects an identity file at
`/etc/fluxd/ssh/identity`, which is where it'll be if you just
uncomment the blocks from the example.

If you're using more than one repository, you may need to provide more
than one SSH key. In that case, you can create a secret with an entry
for each key, and mount that _as well as_ an ssh_config file
mentioning each key as an `IdentityFile`.
